QUARKUS-2479 | Plan for Secret Keys in configs (#105)
quarkus-qe/quarkus-test-plans: QUARKUS-2479.md

# QUARKUS-2479 SmallRye Config SecretKeys support

> Jira: https://issues.redhat.com/browse/QUARKUS-SmallRye Config SecretKeys support

Reviewer: Jira: https://issues.redhat.com/browse/QUARKUS-SmallRye Config SecretKeys support
```suggestion
Jira: https://issues.redhat.com/browse/QUARKUS-SmallRye
```

Reviewer 2: QUARKUS-2479

This test plan covers support of secret keys in SmallRye config

## Scope of the testing
Following topics should be covered:

> 1. Verify, that some secrets can be marked as secret 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Verify, that some config properties can be marked as secret 
```

2. Verify, that usage of these secrets leads to an exception

> 3. Verify, that these secrets can be used only within doUnlocked section

Author: I asked Roberto about that, but this looks like internal API

> 

Reviewer: Coverage should ensure JVM and native mode in baremetal and OpenShift

Reviewer 2: +1 for JVM and native
not so sure about the need for coverage on OpenShift

### Impact on test suites and testing automation
- One new test class added for Kafka Dev Services
- One test method in sql/hibernate reactive refactored 

### Impact on resources:

- No additional requirements for resources in lab

> - Required additional time for the test execution should be less, than minute.

Reviewer: I think that we should cover also native mode at least in `sql/hibernate reactive` just to verify that the new classes that we are using on this feature support mandrel / graalVM compilation. 

I am not sure if OpenShift coverage adds any value to this feature, WDYT ?

Reviewer: I was talking with @rsvoboda about OCP coverage and we believe that from now baremetal is enough.

Author: Added considerations about native compilation

## Advanced topics for test development

> - No advanced topics found

Reviewer: When we are running an application on OpenShift should this extension create a secret and attach this secret as a volume on the generated deployment?

# QUARKUS-2479 SmallRye Config SecretKeys support

Jira: https://issues.redhat.com/browse/QUARKUS-2479

This test plan covers support of secret keys in SmallRye config

## Scope of the testing
Following topics should be covered:

1. Verify, that some config properties can be marked as secret.
2. Verify, that usage of these secrets leads to an exception.
3. Verify, that these secrets cannot be used when injected and when accessed directly.
4. Verify, that these secrets can be used only within doUnlocked section.
5. Coverage should exist for both JVM and native mode in baremetal.

### Impact on test suites and testing automation
- One new test class added for Kafka Dev Services
- One test method in sql/hibernate reactive refactored 

### Impact on resources:
- No additional requirements for resources in lab

> - Required additional time for the test execution in JVM mode should be less, than minute.

Reviewer 2: `less, than` ... why is the comma here?

You probably missed that in my suggestion https://github.com/quarkus-qe/quarkus-test-plans/pull/105#discussion_r1005492654

> - Required additional time for the test execution inN JVM mode should be less, than minute.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Required additional time for the test execution in JVM mode should be less than a minute.
```
